New example: Combine Authentication Methods (#1456)
ngrok/ngrok-docs: docs/universal-gateway/examples/combine-auth-methods.mdx

You'll allow requests from trusted IPs `OR` those containing valid JWTs, and then reject all others.

## 1. Start an endpoint for your service

Start an internal [Agent Endpoint](/docs/universal-gateway/agent-endpoints/), replacing `$PORT` based on where your service listens.
You can also use one of our [SDKs](/docs/agent-sdks) or the [Kubernetes Operator](/docs/k8s).

```bash
ngrok http $PORT --url https://service.internal
```

## 2. Reserve a domain

<ReserveDomain />

## 3. Create a Cloud Endpoint

<CloudEndpoint />

## 4. Add layers of authentication with Traffic Policy

While still viewing your new Cloud Endpoint in the dashboard, copy and paste the policy below into the Traffic Policy editor.
You will need to change:

- `$TRUSTED_IP_FOO`/`$TRUSTED_IP_BAR`: Replace with public IPs of those who should have access to your service or an [IP policy](https://dashboard.ngrok.com/ip-restrictions) in your ngrok dashboard.
- `$YOUR_JWT_DOMAIN`: The domain name for your tenant at your JWT provider—for example, with Auth0, it looks something like `https://example.us.auth0`.

```yaml
on_http_request:

>   # Check whether a request's IP matches your allow list

Reviewer: some comments end in a period and others don't - I'd prefer to see one or the other across the board but don't have a strong preference either way

```suggestion
  # Check whether a request's IP matches your allow list.
```

  - actions:
      - type: restrict-ips
        config:
          # By specifying `false`, you allow the action to run and generate
          # response variables, like `action.ngrok.restrict_ips.action, which
          # allow you to more precisely customize how your policy responds.
          enforce: false
          allow:
            - $TRUSTED_IP_FOO
            - $TRUSTED_IP_BAR

>   # Accept the request if its IP matches your allow list

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  # Accept the request if its IP matches your allow list.
```

  - expressions:
      - actions.ngrok.restrict_ips.action == "allow"
    actions:
      - type: forward-internal
        config:
          url: https://service.internal

  # Validate a JWT token if one exists on an `Authorization` header.
  - expressions:
      - actions.ngrok.restrict_ips.action == "deny"
    actions:
      - type: jwt-validation
        config:
          issuer:
            allow_list:
              - value: "https://$YOUR_JWT_DOMAIN"
          http:
            tokens:
              - type: "jwt"
                method: "header"
                name: "Authorization"
                prefix: "Bearer "
          jws:
            allowed_algorithms:
              - "RS256"
            keys:
              sources:
                additional_jkus:
                  - "https://$YOUR_JWT_DOMAIN/.well-known/jwks.json"

  # Allow the request if the JWT token is verified by your provider.
  - expressions:
      - actions.ngrok.jwt_validation.tokens[0].verified
    actions:
      - type: forward-internal
        config:
          url: https://service.internal

>   # Catch-all custom response for any unauthenticated requests

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  # Catch-all custom response for any unauthenticated requests.
```

              </style>
            </head>
            <body>
              <div class="box">
                🚫 Access denied
              </div>
            </body>
            </html>
```

**What's happening here?**
This policy has three logical sections, where the first two allow traffic to reach your upstream after authenticating with one method `OR` another, and the third is a catch-all error response for requests that fail to authenticate against any method.

The first section checks every HTTP request to see if its source IP matches one on your `allow` list for `restrict-ips`, but doesn't actually enforce the restriction there.
Instead, the following expression checks whether the [`restrict-ips` action result variable](/docs/traffic-policy/actions/restrict-ips/#action-result-variables) `actions.ngrok.restrict_ips.action` is `allow`, which means that it would have allow the request directly if you had set `enforce: true`.

> If that expression is true, then the policy forwards the request to your upstream service.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If this expression is true, then the policy forwards the request to your upstream service.
```

> The second section begins the `OR` logic for all requests that did not match the IP `allow` list.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If it's false—the request didn't match the IP `allow` list—then it's instead forwarded based on whether or not it contains a valid JWT token (which may come from a couple different places).
```

> If these requests contain a valid JWT token, then the policy forwards them to your upstream service.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If it does, then the policy forwards the request to your upstream service.
```
